Tutorial: How to set up Remix analytics, feature flags, and more. (#7192)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/remix-analytics.md

---
title: How to set up Remix analytics, feature flags, and more
date: 2023-11-20
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
tags: ["configuration", "feature flags", "events"]
---

> Remix is a full stack web framework built on [React](/docs/libraries/react) with a specific focus on following web standards. 

Reviewer: maybe link on [web standards] so we know which it is referring to

> In this tutorial, we show you how to create a basic Remix app, add PostHog on both the client and server side, implement custom event capture, capture pageviews, and use feature flags.

Reviewer: Emphasis on adding PostHog, not how to create a Remix app
```suggestion
In this tutorial, we show you how to add PostHog to your Remix app (on both the client and server side), implement custom event capture, capture pageviews, and use feature flags.
```

  const fileContents = await fs.readFile(filePath, 'utf8');
  const posts: Post[] = JSON.parse(fileContents).posts;

  const post = posts.find(p => p.slug === params.slug);

  if (!post) {
    throw new Response("Not Found", { status: 404 });
  }

  return json(post);
};

export default function PostSlug() {
  const post = useLoaderData<Post>();

  const handleClick = () => {
    console.log('liked')
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <p>{post.content}</p>
      <button onClick={handleClick}>Like this post</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Finally, go into the project folder and run the dev server with the following command:

```bash
cd remix-tutorial
npm run dev
```

 Once done, your basic Remix blog is running locally.

![App](../images/tutorials/remix-analytics/app.png)

## Adding PostHog on the client side

Up next is adding PostHog, which you can start by installing:

```bash
npm i posthog-js
```

Once done, you need your project API key and instance address from your PostHog [project settings](https://app.posthog.com/settings/project). You can [sign up for free](https://app.posthog.com/signup) if you haven’t already.

> With these, go to `routes/root.tsx` and set up a `useEffect` to initialize PostHog (import both). 

Reviewer: Don’t think we need this
```suggestion
With these, go to `routes/root.tsx` and set up a `useEffect` to initialize PostHog. 
```

import type { LinksFunction } from "@remix-run/node";
import {
  Links,
  LiveReload,
  Meta,
  Outlet,
  Scripts,
  ScrollRestoration
} from "@remix-run/react";
import posthog from "posthog-js"; // new
import { useEffect } from "react"; // new

export const links: LinksFunction = () => [
  ...(cssBundleHref ? [{ rel: "stylesheet", href: cssBundleHref }] : []),
];

export default function App() {
  useEffect(() => {
    posthog.init(
      '<ph_project_api_key>',
      {
        api_host:'<ph_instance_address>'
      }
    )
  }
  , [])

  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <meta charSet="utf-8" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
        <Meta />
        <Links />
      </head>
      <body>
        <Outlet />
        <ScrollRestoration />
        <Scripts />
        <LiveReload />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

After relaunching your app, PostHog begins autocapturing initial pageviews, clicks, [session replays](/docs/session-replay) (if [you enable them](https://app.posthog.com/settings/project#replay)), and more.

![Autocapture](../images/tutorials/remix-analytics/autocapture.png)

## Capturing pageviews

> You might notice we captured only one pageview even though we navigated between multiple pages. This is because Remix acts as a [single-page app](/tutorials/single-page-app-pageviews) and only triggers an initial page load event. PostHog uses the page load event for pageviews, so to fix this, we must implement pageview capture ourselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might notice we captured only one pageview even though we navigated between multiple pages. This is because Remix is a [single-page app](/tutorials/single-page-app-pageviews) and only triggers an initial page load event. PostHog uses the page load event for pageviews, so to fix this, we must implement pageview capture ourselves.
```

![Flag creation video](../images/tutorials/remix-analytics/button.mp4)

In the `posts.$slug.tsx` file, set up a `useState` for the button content, and a `useEffect` for flag evaluation. We conditionally render the button text based on the flag response.

```ts
//... other imports
import posthog from "posthog-js";
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";

// type, loader

export default function PostSlug() {
  const post = useLoaderData<Post>();

  const [buttonText, setButtonText] = useState('Like this post');
  useEffect(() => {
    const flag = posthog.isFeatureEnabled('new-button-text');
    if (flag) {
      setButtonText('This is a very cool post')
    }
  }, []);

  const handleClick = () => {
    posthog.capture("liked_post", { 'post': post.slug });
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <p>{post.content}</p>
      <button onClick={handleClick}>{buttonText}</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

> Our post page now shows the updated button, which you can control remotely with the flag in PostHog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our post page now shows the updated button, which you can toggle remotely with the flag in PostHog.
```
